Now let's see how we can get the actual you URL of the file that was uploaded and stored.
So let's go to the blog post adding page make sure you are authenticated and select one image to be
uploaded.
Let's go to the post controller.
And instead of dumping those two files which should be equivalent with the exception that they are the
first line this line stores the file using the disk called public.
And the second one that is called local.
So here we haven't specified the disk as you might remember because we are using the default disk and
the default is public.
So let's assign the name that will be returned to a variable called Name one and now here instead of
dumping let's assign this name to name to
okay.
So now to actually present this file names to the user we will use the storage your URL method so the
store storage for sate your URL.
Now let's display name one
and this time we'll use that disk.
Local and this is because we have stored this second file to the disk out.
So this was put to a different place.
So remember when you use local driver the directory is specified under the root directory.
And additionally anything that you specify as the first argument which would be a folder thumbnails
in this case.
So let's go back storage disk.
Local you URL.
And here we display name too.
So you might have noticed that when we previously dumped those names.
Name one and name two.
They were exactly the same so this only contained the name of their file including the folder that you
have specified and the name that we have specified explicitly to the file but it didn't contain any
additional information like whether it was stored in the storage app or a storage up public.
That's why when you want to fetch the you URL you also have to tell it on what disk the file is stored.
So let's save the changes and see what will we get.
So this is the first line.
So what you can see is HDD you link to a domain called local host which we haven't specified anywhere
yet at least.
And then there is this part storage thumbnails 89 JPEG but the second line when we specified that we
want to use that disk locale this actually gives us only our relative path.
So it's slash storage thumbnails 89 and JPEG.
Now let's see how does it figure out what your URL should be used for that particular file on particular
disk.
So it is also configurable inside the file system speech p and you can see that the local disk doesn't
have the user l property specified that's why it haven't added anything before the actual file that
was generated when storing this file.
So it only gives them the storage folder and then whatever you have provided your folder and the file
name.
Now the first example also contained a new URL and this was thanks to the you around property which
it gets from the environment variable called up underscore your URL slash storage.
So this is configured inside the DOT and the file actually it is at the very beginning of the file and
you should modify this to whatever domain your site is currently on.
So obviously you will provide an environment variable on any test stage or production environments but
on your local machine if you have configured the domain the same as I did.
So larval test you will specify larval test here.
So make sure you save the changes and now let's refresh this page it should re re upload the same image.
And now you can see that the first link where we have used a default public disk gives a link like this.
Let's copy that link and see if we can open it you can see that we can't.
We have our 404 page
and this is for a reason because it will look for things inside the public folder so there is no storage
folder inside it.
And yet of course no fund.
Nice folder inside storage folder.
So now let's see what we should do.
So we have the public disk which is configured to store the files inside the application storage directory.
Then up folder and public folder.
So that's the one you see on the left.
Storage up public.
But those files to be publicly served by the web server they need to be inside this public folder.
You can even see that there is the indexed BHP file there.
The main file of the larval application and then all the assets like CSX says James and as Fuji files.
So you definitely should not copy those files over to the public folder.
The way to do it is to create a so-called symbolic link.
So if you are a Windows user you probably are accustomed to creating links on your desktop to files.
And basically this is a link and you don't really have to run any Unix commands to create links because
Lavell has a command to do that and it is called Storage link.
And as you can see on the description it will create a symbolic link from that public storage to storage
up public.
So let's run it BHP artisan storage link as the message says the directory has been linked.
So now what you see here is a link.
So this is the public folder.
So let's go one level up.
So we had to create a link to folder which was inside.
This is our main application directory storage up public and this command created this link inside the
public folder.
Now if you will go to this storage link folder you will see that we have the same thumbnails directory
with the older files that we have so far uploaded
so this was the URL of the file that was generated for the public disk so let's remind ourselves how
we did that.
So after uploading the file the result of this store asked method was the file name and we ask it to
generate a new URL using a default disk.
So this makes sense because if you would change the files to store them in different place like as free
or any other storage like FTB for example then you use the same interface.
And for example what you might then do is just change the default disk name and then your code can stay
the same.
And if you do not know that for example for the S3 it has completely different URLs and then you might
just give direct your URLs for the user to let's say download some files or images or documents whatever
that might be.
So it's basically the best way to use this storage you url to get the actual URL for the file which
has to be somehow downloaded.
Now in this case it will be downloaded by by the web browser basically because we will put that on the
blog post page.
So now if you will copy this again or just refresh this page you should see the image that you have
just uploaded.
So now in this lecture we generally get accustomed we how we can get you a URL for a file depending
on the disk where we have stored that and also how to configure the you URL getting for your application
and well in the next lecture we will finally try to upload this file to store its name somewhere we
will actually want to store the file name inside the database and then later we will see how we can
display this family image on the blog post page.